examples/cpp/dds/BasicConfigurationExample/README.md, before:

# Basic Configuration Example

This example extends the configuration options of a trivial HelloWorld by letting the user specify properties of
entities such as durability, reliability or specify the transport protocol to be used, among other possibilities. This
could be useful, for example, to quickly test whether two endpoints are compatible and hence would match.

## Execution instructions

To launch this test open two different consoles:

In the first one launch: ./BasicConfigurationExample publisher (or BasicConfigurationExample.exe publisher on windows).
In the second one: ./BasicConfigurationExample subscriber (or BasicConfigurationExample.exe subscriber on windows).

## Arguments

First argument is `publisher` or `subscriber` and then the rest of arguments are read unordered

```sh
Usage: BasicConfigurationExample <publisher|subscriber>

General options:
  -h              --help
                    Produce help message.

Publisher options:
  -t <topic_name> --topic=<topic_name>
                    Topic name (Default: HelloWorldTopic).
  -d <id>         --domain=<id>
                    DDS domain ID (Default: 0).
  -w <num>        --wait=<num>
                    Number of matched subscribers required to publish (Default:
                    0 => does not wait).
  -s <num>        --samples=<num>
                    Number of samples to send (Default: 0 => infinite samples).
  -i <num>        --interval=<num>
                    Time between samples in milliseconds (Default: 100).
  -a              --async
                    Asynchronous publish mode (synchronous by default).
                  --transport=<shm|udp|udpv6>
                    Use only shared-memory, UDPv4, or UDPv6 transport.If not
                    set, use Fast DDS default transports (depending on the
                    scenario it will use the most efficient one:  data-sharing
                    delivery mechanism > shared-memory > UDP ).

Subscriber options:
  -t <topic_name> --topic=<topic_name>
                    Topic name (Default: HelloWorldTopic).
  -d <id>         --domain=<id>
                    DDS domain ID (Default: 0).
  -s <num>        --samples=<num>
                    Number of samples to wait for (Default: 0 => infinite
                    samples).
                  --transport=<shm|udp|udpv6>
                    Use only shared-memory, UDPv4, or UDPv6 transport.If not
                    set, use Fast DDS default transports (depending on the
                    scenario it will use the most efficient one:  data-sharing
                    delivery mechanism > shared-memory > UDP ).

QoS options:
  -r              --reliable
                    Set reliability to reliable (best-effort by default).
                  --transient
                    Set durability to transient local (volatile by default,
                    ineffective when not reliable).
```

Commit message:

Update BasicConfigurationExample to allow set up TTL (#2937)
* Refs 15477. Update cli to use only options parser. Add new TTL option

Signed-off-by: Miguel Barro <miguelbarro@eprosima.com>

* Refs 15477. linter pass

Signed-off-by: Miguel Barro <miguelbarro@eprosima.com>

* Refs 15477. README update

Signed-off-by: Miguel Barro <miguelbarro@eprosima.com>

* Refs 15477. Addressing reviewers comments.

Signed-off-by: Miguel Barro <miguelbarro@eprosima.com>

* Refs 15477. Improving warnings.

Signed-off-by: Miguel Barro <miguelbarro@eprosima.com>

Signed-off-by: Miguel Barro <miguelbarro@eprosima.com>

examples/cpp/dds/BasicConfigurationExample/README.md, after:

# Basic Configuration Example

This example extends the configuration options of a trivial HelloWorld by letting the user specify properties of
entities such as durability, reliability or specify the transport protocol to be used, among other possibilities. This
could be useful, for example, to quickly test whether two endpoints are compatible and hence would match.

## Execution instructions

To launch this test open two different consoles:

In the first one launch: ./BasicConfigurationExample publisher (or BasicConfigurationExample.exe publisher on windows).
In the second one: ./BasicConfigurationExample subscriber (or BasicConfigurationExample.exe subscriber on windows).

## Arguments

First argument is `publisher` or `subscriber` and then the rest of arguments are read unordered

```sh
Usage: BasicConfigurationExample <publisher|subscriber>

General options:
  -h              --help
                    Produce help message.

Publisher options:
  -t <topic_name> --topic=<topic_name>
                    Topic name (Default: HelloWorldTopic).
  -d <id>         --domain=<id>
                    DDS domain ID (Default: 0).
  -w <num>        --wait=<num>
                    Number of matched subscribers required to publish (Default:
                    0 => does not wait).
  -s <num>        --samples=<num>
                    Number of samples to send (Default: 0 => infinite samples).
  -i <num>        --interval=<num>
                    Time between samples in milliseconds (Default: 100).
  -a              --async
                    Asynchronous publish mode (synchronous by default).
                  --transport=<shm|udp|udpv6>
                    Use only shared-memory, UDPv4, or UDPv6 transport.If not
                    set, use Fast DDS default transports (depending on the
                    scenario it will use the most efficient one:  data-sharing
                    delivery mechanism > shared-memory > UDP ).

Subscriber options:
  -t <topic_name> --topic=<topic_name>
                    Topic name (Default: HelloWorldTopic).
  -d <id>         --domain=<id>
                    DDS domain ID (Default: 0).
  -s <num>        --samples=<num>
                    Number of samples to wait for (Default: 0 => infinite
                    samples).
                  --transport=<shm|udp|udpv6>
                    Use only shared-memory, UDPv4, or UDPv6 transport.If not
                    set, use Fast DDS default transports (depending on the
                    scenario it will use the most efficient one:  data-sharing
                    delivery mechanism > shared-memory > UDP ).

QoS options:
  -r              --reliable
                    Set reliability to reliable (best-effort by default).
                  --transient
                    Set durability to transient local (volatile by default,
                    ineffective when not reliable).

Discovery options:
                  --ttl
                    Set multicast discovery Time To Live on IPv4 or Hop Limit
                    for IPv6. If not set, uses Fast-DDS default (1 hop).
                    Increase it to avoid discovery issues on scenarios with
                    several routers. Maximum: 255.
```
